Import Prices

Imports by Locality of Origin: Import prices from China and Japan recorded no change in May following 
0.1-percent declines in April and 0.2-percent increases in March. Prices for imports from China declined 1.1 
percent for the year ended in May. In contrast, the price index for imports from Japan increased 1.2 percent 
over the past year. Import prices from Canada decreased 0.6 percent in May, after a 0.1-percent advance in 
April and a 1.1-percent drop in March. Prices for imports from Mexico rose 0.2 percent in May and last 
recorded a monthly decline when the index fell 1.2 percent in January. Prices for imports from the European 
Union recorded no change in May. 

Nonfuel Industrial Supplies and Materials: Nonfuel industrial supplies and materials prices decreased 0.5 
percent in May, the first monthly decline since the index fell 0.6 percent in October. The drop was driven by 
falling prices for unfinished metals.
 
Finished Goods: Prices for the major finished goods categories were mixed. Automotive vehicles prices 
rose 0.1 percent in May, driven by a 0.3-percent advance in non-engine parts. Both capital goods and 
consumer goods prices recorded no change in May.
    
Foods, Feeds, and Beverages: Prices for foods, feeds, and beverages rose 1.2 percent in May, after a 0.5-
percent increase in April. A 3.1-percent advance in fruit prices, a 2.5-percent rise in meat prices, and a 3.2-
percent increase in vegetables prices all contributed to the monthly advance.

Transportation Services: Import air passenger fares rose 3.9 percent in May, driven by a 3.7-percent 
advance in European fares and a 6.2-percent increase in Asian fares. Despite the monthly increase, import 
air passenger fares fell 6.9 percent over the past 12 months. Import air freight prices rose 0.7 percent for the 
second consecutive month in May and 9.7 percent over the past year.

Export Prices

Nonagricultural Industrial Supplies and Materials: The export price index for nonagricultural industrial 
supplies and materials fell 1.9 percent in May following a 0.4-percent rise in April and a 0.1-percent decline 
in March. Despite the monthly decrease, prices for nonagricultural industrial supplies and materials 
increased 4.7 percent for the year ended in May and have not recorded a 12-month decline since October.
 
Finished Goods: Export prices for finished goods either increased or recorded no change in May. Export 
capital goods prices ticked up 0.1 percent, driven by a 0.4-percent advance in computers, peripherals, and 
semiconductors prices. The price index for export consumer goods rose 0.1 percent. Prices for automotive 
vehicles recorded no change in May, after a 0.2-percent rise in April.                        

Transportation Services: Export air passenger fares increased 3.0 percent in May, after a 5.7-percent drop 
in April and a 3.0-percent advance in March. Asian and European fares contributed to the increase in May, 
rising 10.5 percent and 5.1 percent, respectively. The export air passenger fares index advanced 2.2 percent 
for the year ended in May. Export air freight prices increased 1.3 percent in May and rose 4.2 percent 
between May 2016 and May 2017.
		
Import and Export Price Index data for June 2017 are scheduled for release on Tuesday, July 18, 2017 at 
8:30 a.m. (EDT).    


